Yes, someone did incremented at
least four times while we were out.
So that's actually pretty fantastic.
We saw we got some of that done.
All right, so this is probably one of
the more important little things you need
to put in your brain.
I'm just gonna go over some stuff,
no need to program we're
just gonna see how it works.
Effectively it's just talking about gas.
Gas is really expensive.
You've probably heard this term if
you're familiar enough with ethereum,
it's called gwei is the standard unit for
gas which is actually a non standard unit.
The standard unit for ethereum is called
wei one we is the fundamental unit of
ether effectively, it's like our pennies
every dollars 100 pennies effectively.
There's 10 to the nine wei and
a gwei, a gwei is not a giga chat.
It is a giga wei it's a billion weis,
ethers just simply 10 to the 18 weis.
So when you own an ether
you own 10 to 18 weis,
gas is measured in these
more fundamental units.
Gas tends to be measured in a giga wei,
are we have just called
gwei from here on out.
So there's two things you need to
understand when it comes to gas prices.
First thing is virtual machines.
So I wanna just do a quick drawing on a
virtual machine just in case people don't
understand.
And effectively when you think about it
contracts are just simply a series of but,
I got to take a quick break here.
Did you see how straight that line is?
I mean, that was free hand drawn and
FDE material there.
Contract is just simply a series of byte
codes that need to be executed one at
a time.
So you can imagine that if you were to
write a program that takes in text and
does what the text says,
you would effectively have a do while loop
because that is the best loop of all time.
You'd have a do while loop that inside
of it would have a switch statement that
would walk through your so called program.
If you ever did advent of code in 2019,
they had an ENT machine in which you
would actually do effectively this.
And it would hop around inside of
your program until it gets to an endy
condition, and then it would leave.
And that's really all
a virtual machine is.
So when I write something
that looks like x + 3.
What's actually happening is that there's
a something called an add being executed,
a lot like assembly,
right, there's an add.
Maybe it has to load in the x for memory
and then it has to put in a constant and
then it probably needs to go and
store this value in something else.
And so that's effectively
what a virtual machine is,
is that it takes in something that's
not executable and executes it.
JavaScript was originally,
purely just an interpreted language, or
it actually had a virtual
machine underneath it.
If you look at JavaScript core code
from 2012, you will literally see one
gigantic switch statement, I used to
have to play around in it at Netflix.
And that's all it was.
It was just one gigantic statement.
And you just hopped around in there
while the JavaScript was executing, and
eventually it hit an exit condition.
And you'd be out of the gigantic
do while switch loop, right?
They used go-tos actually,
so it's just switch and
it used go-tos to hop
around inside the switch.
A little bit dangerous to do go-tos but
it was a lot of fun.
And so that's all a virtual machine is,
it interprets these things one at a time.
Every single action in
a theorem comes with a cost.
So we can actually open up this
little link that I put in there.
And you can see right away an add
operation requires three units of gas.
And so that's, it's a hard number.
So every single time you do an add,
you're paying three units of gas.
If you do, say a store,
it could cost a lot more,
if you wanna store something onto
the network or onto your contract,
you can store a single word or 256 bits
for approximately 20,000 units of gas.
Now that doesn't mean you're
paying just simply 20,000 gwei,
you're paying 20,000 units of gas and
so what is the other side?
What is the cost of gas?
Well, I can just go in here and
go cost of open up.
That's cost of storage cost of eth gas.
Go here, it'll probably open up ETH
gas station, usually good way to go.
It should say somewhere around in here.
All right, this one doesn't
give me just the gwei one.
There's one that just gives
you the gwei one, gosh.
Ether scan, there we go.
It's 205 gwei, meaning that if
we're to do this an add costs
three gas units right now costs
205 gwei per gas unit, and
the cost of one ether is $4,000 divide
that of course by 10 to the nine.
And what do you get a single add
operation right now cost 0.02.
So if you were to add 50 items right now,
it would cost $1.
So, that's expensive, right?
This is why a theory I'm
struggling in these areas.
So I have the little thing
broken down right here.
This is why I did tend to the nine,
not 10 to the 18.
Because remember, it's in gwei,
it's not an ethers.
So he times it by that to make it into
ethers multiplied by the cost of ethers
divided by wei or you can just simply
reduce the formula to being this.
So, if you're not familiar
with maths there you go,
that's an easy way to do it and so
it's actually pretty expensive.